README.md, before:

Universal Scene Description
===========================

Universal Scene Description (USD) is an efficient, scalable system for
authoring, reading, and streaming time-sampled scene description for
interchange between graphics applications.

For more details, please visit the web site [here](http://openusd.org).

Build Status
------------

|         |   Linux   |  Windows  |   macOS   |
|:-------:|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|
|   dev   | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_apis/build/status/PixarAnimationStudios.OpenUSD?branchName=dev&amp;jobName=Linux)](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=dev) | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_apis/build/status/PixarAnimationStudios.OpenUSD?branchName=dev&amp;jobName=Windows)](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=dev) | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_apis/build/status/PixarAnimationStudios.OpenUSD?branchName=dev&amp;jobName=macOS)](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=dev) |
|  release | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_apis/build/status/PixarAnimationStudios.OpenUSD?branchName=release&amp;jobName=Linux)](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=release) | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_apis/build/status/PixarAnimationStudios.OpenUSD?branchName=release&amp;jobName=Windows)](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=release) | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_apis/build/status/PixarAnimationStudios.OpenUSD?branchName=release&amp;jobName=macOS)](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=release) |

Additional Documentation
------------------------

* [User Documentation and Tutorials](http://openusd.org/docs/index.html)
* [API Documentation](http://openusd.org/docs/api/index.html)
* [Advanced Build Configuration](BUILDING.md)

Getting Help
------------

Need help understanding certain concepts in USD? See
[Getting Help with USD](http://openusd.org/docs/Getting-Help-with-USD.html) or
visit our [forum](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/usd-interest).

If you are experiencing undocumented problems with the software, please 
[file a bug](https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/issues/new).

Supported Platforms
-------------------

USD is primarily developed on Linux platforms (CentOS 7), but is built, tested 
and supported on macOS and Windows.

Please see [VERSIONS.md](VERSIONS.md) for explicitly tested versions. 

Dependencies
------------

Required:
 - C/C++ compiler
 - [CMake](https://cmake.org/documentation/)
 - [Boost](https://boost.org)
 - [Intel TBB](https://www.threadingbuildingblocks.org/)

Optional:
 - [Python](https://python.org)

See [3rd Party Library and Application Versions](VERSIONS.md) for version information.

Additional dependencies are required for the following components. These 
components may be disabled at build-time. For further details see
[Advanced Build Configuration](BUILDING.md).

**Imaging and USD Imaging**

Required:
 - [OpenSubdiv](https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenSubdiv)

Optional:
 - [OpenEXR](http://www.openexr.com)
 - [OpenImageIO](https://sites.google.com/site/openimageio/home)
 - [OpenColorIO](http://opencolorio.org/)
 - [OSL (OpenShadingLanguage)](https://github.com/imageworks/OpenShadingLanguage)
 - [Ptex](http://ptex.us/)                          

**usdview**

Required:

 - [PySide6](http://wiki.qt.io/PySide6) or [PySide2](http://wiki.qt.io/PySide2)
 - [PyOpenGL](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/PyOpenGL/)

Getting and Building the Code
-----------------------------

The simplest way to build USD is to run the supplied `build_usd.py`
script. This script will download required dependencies and build 
and install them along with USD in a given directory. 

Follow the instructions below to run the script with its default behavior, 
which will build the USD core libraries, Imaging, and USD Imaging components.
For more options and documentation, run the script with the `--help`
parameter.

See [Advanced Build Configuration](BUILDING.md) for examples and
additional documentation for running cmake directly.

#### 1. Install prerequisites (see [Dependencies](#dependencies) for required versions)

- Required:
    - C++ compiler:
        - gcc
        - Xcode
        - Microsoft Visual Studio
    - CMake
- Optional (Can be ignored by passing `--no-python` as an argument to `build_usd.py`)
    - Python (required for [bindings and tests](BUILDING.md#python)) 
    - PyOpenGL (required for [usdview](BUILDING.md#usd-imaging))
    - PySide6 or PySide2 (required for [usdview](BUILDING.md#usd-imaging))

#### 2. Download the USD source code

You can download source code archives from [GitHub](https://www.github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD) or use `git` to clone the repository.

```
> git clone https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD
Cloning into 'OpenUSD'...
```

#### 3. Run the script

Run the build_usd.py script to build and install USD. Note that the build script 
is structured with an out-of-source build in mind -- installing a build into the  
directory where the repository was cloned is untested. 

##### Linux:

For example, the following will download, build, and install USD's dependencies,
then build and install USD into `/path/to/my_usd_install_dir`.

```
> python USD/build_scripts/build_usd.py /path/to/my_usd_install_dir
```

##### macOS:

In a terminal, run `xcode-select` to ensure command line developer tools are
installed. Then run the script.

For example, the following will download, build, and install USD's dependencies,
then build and install USD into `/path/to/my_usd_install_dir`.

```
> python USD/build_scripts/build_usd.py /path/to/my_usd_install_dir
```

###### iOS

When building from a macOS system, you can cross compile for iOS based platforms.

iOS builds currently do not support Imaging.
Additionally, they will not support Python bindings or command line tools.

To build for iOS, add the `--build-target iOS` parameter.


##### Windows:

Launch the "x64 Native Tools Command Prompt" for your version of Visual Studio
and run the script in the opened shell. Make sure to use the 64-bit (x64) 
command prompt and not the 32-bit (x86) command prompt.

See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/how-to-enable-a-64-bit-visual-cpp-toolset-on-the-command-line for more details.

For example, the following will download, build, and install USD's dependencies,
then build and install USD into `C:\path\to\my_usd_install_dir`.

```
C:\> python USD\build_scripts\build_usd.py "C:\path\to\my_usd_install_dir"
```

#### 4. Try it out

Set the environment variables specified by the script when it finishes and 
launch `usdview` with a sample asset.

```
> usdview USD/extras/usd/tutorials/convertingLayerFormats/Sphere.usda
```

Contributing
------------

If you'd like to contribute to USD (and we appreciate the help!), please see
the [Contributing](http://openusd.org/docs/Contributing-to-USD.html) page in the
documentation for more information.

Commit message:

Enable building for Apple Frameworks

README.md, after:

Universal Scene Description
===========================

Universal Scene Description (USD) is an efficient, scalable system for
authoring, reading, and streaming time-sampled scene description for
interchange between graphics applications.

For more details, please visit the web site [here](http://openusd.org).

Build Status
------------

|         |   Linux   |  Windows  |   macOS   |
|:-------:|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|
|   dev   | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_apis/build/status/PixarAnimationStudios.OpenUSD?branchName=dev&amp;jobName=Linux)](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=dev) | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_apis/build/status/PixarAnimationStudios.OpenUSD?branchName=dev&amp;jobName=Windows)](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=dev) | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_apis/build/status/PixarAnimationStudios.OpenUSD?branchName=dev&amp;jobName=macOS)](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=dev) |
|  release | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_apis/build/status/PixarAnimationStudios.OpenUSD?branchName=release&amp;jobName=Linux)](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=release) | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_apis/build/status/PixarAnimationStudios.OpenUSD?branchName=release&amp;jobName=Windows)](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=release) | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_apis/build/status/PixarAnimationStudios.OpenUSD?branchName=release&amp;jobName=macOS)](https://dev.azure.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/_build/latest?definitionId=2&branchName=release) |

Additional Documentation
------------------------

* [User Documentation and Tutorials](http://openusd.org/docs/index.html)
* [API Documentation](http://openusd.org/docs/api/index.html)
* [Advanced Build Configuration](BUILDING.md)

Getting Help
------------

Need help understanding certain concepts in USD? See
[Getting Help with USD](http://openusd.org/docs/Getting-Help-with-USD.html) or
visit our [forum](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/usd-interest).

If you are experiencing undocumented problems with the software, please 
[file a bug](https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD/issues/new).

Supported Platforms
-------------------

USD is primarily developed on Linux platforms (CentOS 7), but is built, tested 
and supported on macOS and Windows.

Please see [VERSIONS.md](VERSIONS.md) for explicitly tested versions. 

Dependencies
------------

Required:
 - C/C++ compiler
 - [CMake](https://cmake.org/documentation/)
 - [Boost](https://boost.org)
 - [Intel TBB](https://www.threadingbuildingblocks.org/)

Optional:
 - [Python](https://python.org)

See [3rd Party Library and Application Versions](VERSIONS.md) for version information.

Additional dependencies are required for the following components. These 
components may be disabled at build-time. For further details see
[Advanced Build Configuration](BUILDING.md).

**Imaging and USD Imaging**

Required:
 - [OpenSubdiv](https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenSubdiv)

Optional:
 - [OpenEXR](http://www.openexr.com)
 - [OpenImageIO](https://sites.google.com/site/openimageio/home)
 - [OpenColorIO](http://opencolorio.org/)
 - [OSL (OpenShadingLanguage)](https://github.com/imageworks/OpenShadingLanguage)
 - [Ptex](http://ptex.us/)                          

**usdview**

Required:

 - [PySide6](http://wiki.qt.io/PySide6) or [PySide2](http://wiki.qt.io/PySide2)
 - [PyOpenGL](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/PyOpenGL/)

Getting and Building the Code
-----------------------------

The simplest way to build USD is to run the supplied `build_usd.py`
script. This script will download required dependencies and build 
and install them along with USD in a given directory. 

Follow the instructions below to run the script with its default behavior, 
which will build the USD core libraries, Imaging, and USD Imaging components.
For more options and documentation, run the script with the `--help`
parameter.

See [Advanced Build Configuration](BUILDING.md) for examples and
additional documentation for running cmake directly.

#### 1. Install prerequisites (see [Dependencies](#dependencies) for required versions)

- Required:
    - C++ compiler:
        - gcc
        - Xcode
        - Microsoft Visual Studio
    - CMake
- Optional (Can be ignored by passing `--no-python` as an argument to `build_usd.py`)
    - Python (required for [bindings and tests](BUILDING.md#python)) 
    - PyOpenGL (required for [usdview](BUILDING.md#usd-imaging))
    - PySide6 or PySide2 (required for [usdview](BUILDING.md#usd-imaging))

#### 2. Download the USD source code

You can download source code archives from [GitHub](https://www.github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD) or use `git` to clone the repository.

```
> git clone https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD
Cloning into 'OpenUSD'...
```

#### 3. Run the script

Run the build_usd.py script to build and install USD. Note that the build script 
is structured with an out-of-source build in mind -- installing a build into the  
directory where the repository was cloned is untested. 

##### Linux:

For example, the following will download, build, and install USD's dependencies,
then build and install USD into `/path/to/my_usd_install_dir`.

```
> python USD/build_scripts/build_usd.py /path/to/my_usd_install_dir
```

##### macOS:

In a terminal, run `xcode-select` to ensure command line developer tools are
installed. Then run the script.

For example, the following will download, build, and install USD's dependencies,
then build and install USD into `/path/to/my_usd_install_dir`.

```
> python USD/build_scripts/build_usd.py /path/to/my_usd_install_dir
```

Additionally you can provide the `--build-apple-framework` flag to create a framework output, for easier integration
into an Xcode application. Framework support is currently experimental, and will always build monolithic.

###### iOS

When building from a macOS system, you can cross compile for iOS based platforms.

iOS builds currently do not support Imaging.
Additionally, they will not support Python bindings or command line tools.

To build for iOS, add the `--build-target iOS` parameter.

iOS builds default to building as a framework.

##### Windows:

Launch the "x64 Native Tools Command Prompt" for your version of Visual Studio
and run the script in the opened shell. Make sure to use the 64-bit (x64) 
command prompt and not the 32-bit (x86) command prompt.

See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/how-to-enable-a-64-bit-visual-cpp-toolset-on-the-command-line for more details.

For example, the following will download, build, and install USD's dependencies,
then build and install USD into `C:\path\to\my_usd_install_dir`.

```
C:\> python USD\build_scripts\build_usd.py "C:\path\to\my_usd_install_dir"
```

#### 4. Try it out

Set the environment variables specified by the script when it finishes and 
launch `usdview` with a sample asset.

```
> usdview USD/extras/usd/tutorials/convertingLayerFormats/Sphere.usda
```

Contributing
------------

If you'd like to contribute to USD (and we appreciate the help!), please see
the [Contributing](http://openusd.org/docs/Contributing-to-USD.html) page in the
documentation for more information.
